README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# unadapter

<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Work%20In%20Progress-orange" alt="Work In Progress"/>

[![npm version][npm-version-src]][npm-version-href]
[![npm downloads][npm-downloads-src]][npm-downloads-href]
[![bundle][bundle-src]][bundle-href]
[![JSDocs][jsdocs-src]][jsdocs-href]
[![License][license-src]][license-href]

**A universal adapter interface for connecting various databases and ORMs with a standardized API.**

<hr />

</div>

## 🚧 Ongoing Development
> **Note:** This project is currently under active development. Features and APIs may change.

This project is based on the adapter architecture from [better-auth](https://github.com/better-auth) and is being developed to provide a standalone, ESM-compatible adapter solution that can be used across various open-source projects.

<details>
<summary><b>📋 Development Roadmap</b></summary>

- [x] Initial adapter architecture
- [x] Basic adapters implementation
- [ ] Comprehensive documentation
- [ ] Performance optimizations
- [ ] Additional adapter types
- [ ] Integration examples

</details>

## 🌟 Overview

unadapter provides a consistent interface for database operations, allowing you to switch between different database solutions without changing your application code. This is particularly useful for applications that need database-agnostic operations or might need to switch database providers in the future.

I've seen the need for this kind of adapter system in several of my own projects and across the open-source ecosystem. In the future, better-auth might utilize unadapter, bringing this unified adapter structure to a wider range of open-source projects with full ESM support.

## 🧩 Available Adapters

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Adapter</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Status</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>Memory Adapter</b></td>
    <td>In-memory adapter ideal for development and testing</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b><a href="https://www.prisma.io/">Prisma Adapter</a></b></td>
    <td>For Prisma ORM</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b><a href="https://www.mongodb.com/">MongoDB Adapter</a></b></td>
    <td>For MongoDB</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b><a href="https://orm.drizzle.team/">Drizzle Adapter</a></b></td>
    <td>For Drizzle ORM</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b><a href="https://kysely.dev/">Kysely Adapter</a></b></td>
    <td>For Kysely SQL query builder</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## ✨ Features

- 🔄 Standardized interface for common database operations (create, read, update, delete)
- 🛡️ Type-safe operations
- 🔍 Support for complex queries and transformations
- 🌐 Database-agnostic application code
- 🔄 Easy switching between different database providers
- 🗺️ Custom field mapping
- 📊 Support for various data types across different database systems

## 📝 License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests to help improve unadapter.

<hr />

<div align="center">
  <p><i>unadapter is a work in progress. Stay tuned for updates!</i></p>
</div>

[npm-version-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/unadapter?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[npm-version-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/unadapter
[npm-downloads-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/unadapter?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[npm-downloads-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/unadapter
[bundle-src]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/unadapter?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669&label=minzip
[bundle-href]: https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=unadapter
[license-src]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/productdevbook/unadapter.svg?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[license-href]: https://github.com/productdevbook/unadapter/blob/main/LICENSE
[jsdocs-src]: https://img.shields.io/badge/jsdocs-reference-080f12?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[jsdocs-href]: https://www.jsdocs.io/package/unadapter

Commit message:

chore: add roadmap item for complete abstraction from better-auth

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# unadapter

<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Work%20In%20Progress-orange" alt="Work In Progress"/>

[![npm version][npm-version-src]][npm-version-href]
[![npm downloads][npm-downloads-src]][npm-downloads-href]
[![bundle][bundle-src]][bundle-href]
[![JSDocs][jsdocs-src]][jsdocs-href]
[![License][license-src]][license-href]

**A universal adapter interface for connecting various databases and ORMs with a standardized API.**

<hr />

</div>

## 🚧 Ongoing Development
> **Note:** This project is currently under active development. Features and APIs may change.

This project is based on the adapter architecture from [better-auth](https://github.com/better-auth) and is being developed to provide a standalone, ESM-compatible adapter solution that can be used across various open-source projects.

<details>
<summary><b>📋 Development Roadmap</b></summary>

- [x] Initial adapter architecture
- [x] Basic adapters implementation
- [ ] Comprehensive documentation
- [ ] Performance optimizations
- [ ] Additional adapter types
- [ ] Integration examples
- [ ] Complete abstraction from better-auth and compatibility with all software systems

</details>

## 🌟 Overview

unadapter provides a consistent interface for database operations, allowing you to switch between different database solutions without changing your application code. This is particularly useful for applications that need database-agnostic operations or might need to switch database providers in the future.

I've seen the need for this kind of adapter system in several of my own projects and across the open-source ecosystem. In the future, better-auth might utilize unadapter, bringing this unified adapter structure to a wider range of open-source projects with full ESM support.

## 🧩 Available Adapters

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Adapter</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Status</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>Memory Adapter</b></td>
    <td>In-memory adapter ideal for development and testing</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b><a href="https://www.prisma.io/">Prisma Adapter</a></b></td>
    <td>For Prisma ORM</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b><a href="https://www.mongodb.com/">MongoDB Adapter</a></b></td>
    <td>For MongoDB</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b><a href="https://orm.drizzle.team/">Drizzle Adapter</a></b></td>
    <td>For Drizzle ORM</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b><a href="https://kysely.dev/">Kysely Adapter</a></b></td>
    <td>For Kysely SQL query builder</td>
    <td>✅ Ready</td>
  </tr>
</table>

## ✨ Features

- 🔄 Standardized interface for common database operations (create, read, update, delete)
- 🛡️ Type-safe operations
- 🔍 Support for complex queries and transformations
- 🌐 Database-agnostic application code
- 🔄 Easy switching between different database providers
- 🗺️ Custom field mapping
- 📊 Support for various data types across different database systems

## 📝 License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests to help improve unadapter.

## 🙏 Credits

This project draws inspiration and core concepts from:

- [better-auth](https://github.com/better-auth) - The original adapter architecture that inspired this project

<hr />

<div align="center">
  <p><i>unadapter is a work in progress. Stay tuned for updates!</i></p>
</div>

[npm-version-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/unadapter?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[npm-version-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/unadapter
[npm-downloads-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/unadapter?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[npm-downloads-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/unadapter
[bundle-src]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/unadapter?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669&label=minzip
[bundle-href]: https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=unadapter
[license-src]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/productdevbook/unadapter.svg?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[license-href]: https://github.com/productdevbook/unadapter/blob/main/LICENSE
[jsdocs-src]: https://img.shields.io/badge/jsdocs-reference-080f12?style=flat&colorA=080f12&colorB=1fa669
[jsdocs-href]: https://www.jsdocs.io/package/unadapter
